api.md, before:

# API Reference

## ModuleProxy

```typescript
interface ModuleProxy<T, R1 = any, R2 = any, R3 = any, R4 = any, R5 = any>
```

Once Alar is imported to the project, this interface will be presented under 
the global namespace, and can be used everywhere.

The interface has the following properties and methods:

- `name: string` The name (with namespace) of the module.
- `path: string` The path (without extension) of the module.
- `exports: any` The very exports object of the module.
- `proto: object` The very prototype of the module.
- `ctor: ModuleConstructor<T>` The very class constructor of the module.
- `create()` Creates a new instance of the module.
    - `create(arg1: R1): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2, arg3: R3): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2, arg3: R3, arg4: R4): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2, arg3: R3, arg4: R4, arg5: R5): T`
- `instance(route?: any): T` Gets the local singleton or a remote instance of 
    the module, if connected to one or more remote instances, the module proxy 
    will automatically calculate the `route` and direct the traffic to the 
    corresponding remote instance. If the given route matches the DSN of any 
    remote service, the corresponding singleton will be returned instead.
- `inject(route?: any): PropertyDecorator` Allowing the current module to be 
    injected as a dependency bound to a property of another class instance.
- `noLocal(): this` If the module is registered as remote service, however when 
    no RPC channel is available, by default, `instance()` will fail to the local 
    instance, using this method to disable the default behavior.

**NOTE: IPC/RPC calling will serialize the data via JSON, those data that cannot**
**be serialized will get lost during transmission.**

**NOTE: properties cannot be accessed remotely, if trying so, `null` or**
**`undefined` will be returned instead, so it's better to declare properties**
**`protected` or `private` in any service class that may potentially served**
**remotely.**

## ModuleConstructor

This interface will be globalized as well, it indicates the very class 
constructor of the module (default export).

```typescript
interface ModuleConstructor<T> {
    new(...args: any[]): T;
    getInstance?(): T;
}
```

- `getInstance?(): T` If the class defines this static method, when calling 
    `ModuleProxy<T>.instance()`, it will get the returning instance as the 
    singleton instead.

## ModuleProxyBase

```typescript
class ModuleProxyBase<T = any> implements ModuleProxy<T> { }
```

This class is internally used to create chained module proxies.

# ModuleProxy (class)

```typescript
class ModuleProxy extends ModuleProxyBase {
    constructor(name: string, path: string);
}
```

This class must be imported in order to create a root module proxy, and the root
module should be declared as a namespace under the global scope, in TypeScript,
the following steps must be walked though for Alar to work in a project.

```typescript
import { ModuleProxy } from "alar";

// This statement creates a root module and assign it to the global scope in 
// NodeJS env.
export const App = global["app"] = new ModuleProxy("app", __dirname);

// This declaration merging creates a namespace app under the global scope in
// TypeScript, so you can use it everywhere for type hint and type check.
declare global {
    namespace app { }
}
```

This class has the following extra properties and methods:

- `local: symbol` If passed to the `ModuleProxy<T>.instance()`, the method will 
    always return the local instance.
- `serve(config: string | RpcOptions): Promise<RpcServer>` Serves an RPC 
    service according to the given configuration.
- `connect(config: string | ClientOptions): Promise<RpcClient>` Connects an RPC 
    service according to the given configuration.
- `resolve(path: string): string` Resolves the given path to a module name.
- `watch(listener?: (event: "change" | "unlink", filename: string)): FSWatcher` 
    Watches file change and reload the corresponding module.
    - `listener` if provided, it will be called after the module cache has been
        cleared.
    - `FSWatcher` is a type exposed by 
        [chokidar](https://github.com/paulmillr/chokidar).
- `setLoader(loader: ModuleLoader): void` Sets a custom loader to resolve the 
    module.

**NOTE: although `ModuleProxy` inherits from `ModuleProxyBase`, calling the**
**methods like `create()`, `instance()` should be avoided.**

## ModuleLoader

```typescript
export interface ModuleLoader {
    extension: string | string[],
    load(filename: string): any;
    unload(filename: string): void;
}
```

By default, Alar supports JavaScript modules and (TypeScript modules in 
**ts-node**), By setting a custom loader, a ModuleProxy instance can resolve any
kind of module wanted. (NOTE: The loader must provide cache support.)

- `extension` Extension name of the module file, by default, it's `.js` (or `.ts`
    in ts-node).
- `load(filename: string): any` Loads module from the given file or cache.
- `unload(filename: string): void` Unloads the module in cache if the file is 
    modified.

```typescript
// Add a loader to resolve JSON modules.
var json = new alar.ModuleProxy("json", __dirname + "/json");
var cache = {};

json.setLoader({
    extension: ".json",
    load(filename) {
        return cache[filename] || (
            cache[filename] = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(filename, "utf8"))
        );
    },
    unload(filename) {
        cache[filename] && (delete cache[filename]);
    }
});
```

## RpcOptions

```typescript
interface RpcOptions {
    [x: string]: any,
    host?: string;
    port?: number;
    path?: string;
    secret?: string;
}
```

If `path` is provided (equivalent to `ModuleProxy.serve(config: string)` and 
`ModuleProxy.connect(config: string)`), the RPC channel will be bound to an IPC 
channel. Otherwise, the RPC channel will be bound a network channel according to
the `host` and `port`.

If a `secret` key is set, the client must provide the same key when connect,
otherwise the server will reject.

## RpcChannel

```typescript
abstract class RpcChannel implements RpcOptions { }
```

This abstract class just indicates the RPC channel that allows modules to 
communicate remotely. `ModuleProxy.serve()` and `ModuleProxy.connect()` return 
its server and client implementations.

The following properties and methods work in both implementations:

- `dsn: string` Gets the data source name according to the configuration.
- `open(): Promise<this>` Opens the channel. This method is internally called by
    `ModuleProxy.serve()` and `ModuleProxy.connect()`, you don't have to call it.
- `close(): Promise<this>` Closes the channel.
- `register<T>(mod: ModuleProxy<T>): this` Registers a module proxy to the 
    channel.
- `onError(handler: (err: Error) => void)` Binds an error handler invoked 
    whenever an error occurred in asynchronous operations which can't be caught
    during run-time.
- `RpcChannel.registerError(ctor: new (...args: any) => Error)` Registers a new 
    type of error so that the channel can transmit it.

## RpcServer

```typescript
class RpcServer extends RpcChannel { }
```

The server implementation of the RPC channel.

- `publish(event: string, data: any, clients?: string[]): boolean` Publishes 
    data to the corresponding event, if `clients` are provided, the event will 
    only be emitted to them.
- `getClients(): string[]` Returns all IDs of clients that connected to the 
    server.

## ClientOptions

```typescript
interface ClientOptions extends RpcOptions {
    id?: string;
    timeout?: number;
    pingInterval?: number;
}
```

The `id` is used for the server publishing events to specified clients, if not 
provided, a random string will be generated.

By default `timeout` is set `5000`ms, it is used to force a timeout error when
a RPC request fires and doesn't get response after a long time.

The client uses `pingInterval` to set a timer of ping function, so that to
ensure the connection is alive. If the server doesn't response when pinging, the
client will consider the server is down and will destroy and retry the
connection.

### About Reconnection

When the client detected the server is down or malfunction, it will destroy the
connection positively and retry connect. Since v4.0.0, this feature uses an
exponential back-off mechanism to retry connect rapidly util about 2 minutes
timeout before consider the server is down permanently, and will close the
channel after that.

## RpcClient

```typescript
class RpcClient extends RpcChannel implements ClientOptions { }
```

The client implementation of the RPC channel.

- `connecting: boolean` Whether the channel is in connecting state.
- `connected: boolean` Whether the channel is connected.
- `closed: boolean` Whether the channel is closed.
- `pause(): boolean`  Pauses the channel and redirect traffic to other channels.
- `resume(): boolean` Resumes the channel and continue handling traffic.
- `subscribe(event: string, listener: Subscriber): this` Subscribes a listener 
    function to the corresponding event.
- `unsubscribe(event: string, listener?: Subscriber): boolean` Unsubscribes the 
    `listener` or all listeners from the corresponding event.

The `Subscriber` is a type of

```typescript
type Subscriber = (data: any) => void | Promise<void>;
```

All listeners bound to an event will be called sequentially in an `async` 
function scope.

## Pub-Sub Model between the server and clients

When the server calls the `publish` method, any client `subscribe`s to the event
will invokes the bound listeners, this mechanism is usually used for the server
broadcasting data to connected clients.

Commit message:

support custom server id and routing with server id

api.md, after:

# API Reference

## ModuleProxy

```typescript
interface ModuleProxy<T, R1 = any, R2 = any, R3 = any, R4 = any, R5 = any>
```

Once Alar is imported to the project, this interface will be presented under 
the global namespace, and can be used everywhere.

The interface has the following properties and methods:

- `name: string` The name (with namespace) of the module.
- `path: string` The path (without extension) of the module.
- `exports: any` The very exports object of the module.
- `proto: object` The very prototype of the module.
- `ctor: ModuleConstructor<T>` The very class constructor of the module.
- `create()` Creates a new instance of the module.
    - `create(arg1: R1): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2, arg3: R3): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2, arg3: R3, arg4: R4): T`
    - `create(arg1: R1, arg2: R2, arg3: R3, arg4: R4, arg5: R5): T`
- `instance(route?: any): T` Gets the local singleton or a remote instance of 
    the module, if connected to one or more remote instances, the module proxy 
    will automatically calculate the `route` and direct the traffic to the 
    corresponding remote instance. If the given route matches the server ID of 
    any remote service, the corresponding singleton will be returned instead.
- `inject(route?: any): PropertyDecorator` Allowing the current module to be 
    injected as a dependency bound to a property of another class instance.
- `noLocal(): this` If the module is registered as remote service, however when 
    no RPC channel is available, by default, `instance()` will fail to the local 
    instance, using this method to disable the default behavior.

**NOTE: IPC/RPC calling will serialize the data via JSON, those data that cannot**
**be serialized will get lost during transmission.**

**NOTE: properties cannot be accessed remotely, if trying so, `null` or**
**`undefined` will be returned instead, so it's better to declare properties**
**`protected` or `private` in any service class that may potentially served**
**remotely.**

## ModuleConstructor

This interface will be globalized as well, it indicates the very class 
constructor of the module (default export).

```typescript
interface ModuleConstructor<T> {
    new(...args: any[]): T;
    getInstance?(): T;
}
```

- `getInstance?(): T` If the class defines this static method, when calling 
    `ModuleProxy<T>.instance()`, it will get the returning instance as the 
    singleton instead.

## ModuleProxyBase

```typescript
class ModuleProxyBase<T = any> implements ModuleProxy<T> { }
```

This class is internally used to create chained module proxies.

# ModuleProxy (class)

```typescript
class ModuleProxy extends ModuleProxyBase {
    constructor(name: string, path: string);
}
```

This class must be imported in order to create a root module proxy, and the root
module should be declared as a namespace under the global scope, in TypeScript,
the following steps must be walked though for Alar to work in a project.

```typescript
import { ModuleProxy } from "alar";

// This statement creates a root module and assign it to the global scope in 
// NodeJS env.
export const App = global["app"] = new ModuleProxy("app", __dirname);

// This declaration merging creates a namespace app under the global scope in
// TypeScript, so you can use it everywhere for type hint and type check.
declare global {
    namespace app { }
}
```

This class has the following extra properties and methods:

- `local: symbol` If passed to the `ModuleProxy<T>.instance()`, the method will 
    always return the local instance.
- `serve(config: string | RpcOptions): Promise<RpcServer>` Serves an RPC 
    service according to the given configuration.
- `connect(config: string | ClientOptions): Promise<RpcClient>` Connects an RPC 
    service according to the given configuration.
- `resolve(path: string): string` Resolves the given path to a module name.
- `watch(listener?: (event: "change" | "unlink", filename: string)): FSWatcher` 
    Watches file change and reload the corresponding module.
    - `listener` if provided, it will be called after the module cache has been
        cleared.
    - `FSWatcher` is a type exposed by 
        [chokidar](https://github.com/paulmillr/chokidar).
- `setLoader(loader: ModuleLoader): void` Sets a custom loader to resolve the 
    module.

**NOTE: although `ModuleProxy` inherits from `ModuleProxyBase`, calling the**
**methods like `create()`, `instance()` should be avoided.**

## ModuleLoader

```typescript
export interface ModuleLoader {
    extension: string | string[],
    load(filename: string): any;
    unload(filename: string): void;
}
```

By default, Alar supports JavaScript modules and (TypeScript modules in 
**ts-node**), By setting a custom loader, a ModuleProxy instance can resolve any
kind of module wanted. (NOTE: The loader must provide cache support.)

- `extension` Extension name of the module file, by default, it's `.js` (or `.ts`
    in ts-node).
- `load(filename: string): any` Loads module from the given file or cache.
- `unload(filename: string): void` Unloads the module in cache if the file is 
    modified.

```typescript
// Add a loader to resolve JSON modules.
var json = new alar.ModuleProxy("json", __dirname + "/json");
var cache = {};

json.setLoader({
    extension: ".json",
    load(filename) {
        return cache[filename] || (
            cache[filename] = JSON.parse(fs.readFileSync(filename, "utf8"))
        );
    },
    unload(filename) {
        cache[filename] && (delete cache[filename]);
    }
});
```

## RpcOptions

```typescript
interface RpcOptions {
    [x: string]: any,
    host?: string;
    port?: number;
    path?: string;
    secret?: string;
    id?: string;
}
```

If `path` is provided (equivalent to `ModuleProxy.serve(config: string)` and 
`ModuleProxy.connect(config: string)`), the RPC channel will be bound to an IPC 
channel. Otherwise, the RPC channel will be bound a network channel according to
the `host` and `port`.

If a `secret` key is set, the client must provide the same key when connect,
otherwise the server will reject.

The `id` property is of ambiguity. On the server side, if omitted, it will fall
back to `dsn`, used for the client routing requests. On the client side, if
omitted, a random string will be generated, used for the server publishing
events.

## RpcChannel

```typescript
abstract class RpcChannel implements RpcOptions { }
```

This abstract class just indicates the RPC channel that allows modules to 
communicate remotely. methods `ModuleProxy.serve()` and `ModuleProxy.connect()`
return its server and client implementations accordingly.

The following properties and methods work in both implementations:

- `id: string` The unique ID of the server or the client.
- `dsn: string` Gets the data source name according to the configuration.
- `open(): Promise<this>` Opens the channel. This method is internally called by
    `ModuleProxy.serve()` and `ModuleProxy.connect()`, you don't have to call it.
- `close(): Promise<this>` Closes the channel.
- `register<T>(mod: ModuleProxy<T>): this` Registers a module proxy to the 
    channel.
- `onError(handler: (err: Error) => void)` Binds an error handler invoked 
    whenever an error occurred in asynchronous operations which can't be caught
    during run-time.
- `RpcChannel.registerError(ctor: new (...args: any) => Error)` Registers a new 
    type of error so that the channel can transmit it.

## RpcServer

```typescript
class RpcServer extends RpcChannel { }
```

The server implementation of the RPC channel.

- `publish(event: string, data: any, clients?: string[]): boolean` Publishes 
    data to the corresponding event, if `clients` are provided, the event will 
    only be emitted to them.
- `getClients(): string[]` Returns all IDs of clients that connected to the 
    server.

## ClientOptions

```typescript
interface ClientOptions extends RpcOptions {
    timeout?: number;
    pingInterval?: number;
}
```

By default `timeout` is set `5000`ms, it is used to force a timeout error when
a RPC request fires and doesn't get response after a long time.

The client uses `pingInterval` to set a timer of ping function, so that to
ensure the connection is alive. If the server doesn't response when pinging, the
client will consider the server is down and will destroy and retry the
connection.

### About Reconnection

When the client detected the server is down or malfunction, it will destroy the
connection positively and retry connect. Since v4.0.0, this feature uses an
exponential back-off mechanism to retry connect rapidly util about 2 minutes
timeout before consider the server is down permanently, and will close the
channel after that.

## RpcClient

```typescript
class RpcClient extends RpcChannel implements ClientOptions { }
```

The client implementation of the RPC channel.

- `connecting: boolean` Whether the channel is in connecting state.
- `connected: boolean` Whether the channel is connected.
- `closed: boolean` Whether the channel is closed.
- `pause(): boolean`  Pauses the channel and redirect traffic to other channels.
- `resume(): boolean` Resumes the channel and continue handling traffic.
- `subscribe(event: string, listener: Subscriber): this` Subscribes a listener 
    function to the corresponding event.
- `unsubscribe(event: string, listener?: Subscriber): boolean` Unsubscribes the 
    `listener` or all listeners from the corresponding event.

The `Subscriber` is a type of

```typescript
type Subscriber = (data: any) => void | Promise<void>;
```

All listeners bound to an event will be called sequentially in an `async` 
function scope.

## Pub-Sub Model between the server and clients

When the server calls the `publish` method, any client `subscribe`s to the event
will invokes the bound listeners, this mechanism is usually used for the server
broadcasting data to connected clients.
